How to ensure the quality of a software system
吕俊蒙13126113

In this article, on the basis of the my experience in some tests, I will talk about how to ensure the quality of a software system.
First of all, what is the quality of a software system?
The quality of software is assessed by a number of variables. These variables can be divided into external and internal quality criteria. External quality is what a user experiences when running the software in its operational mode. Internal quality refers to aspects that are code-dependent, and that are not visible to the end-user. External quality is critical to the user, while internal quality is meaningful to the developer only.
A testing is for what?
A primary purpose of testing is to detect software failures so that defects may be discovered and corrected. Testing cannot establish that a product functions properly under all conditions but can only establish that it does not function properly under specific conditions. The scope of software testing often includes examination of code as well as execution of that code in various environments and conditions as well as examining the aspects of code: does it do what it is supposed to do and do what it needs to do. In the current culture of software development, a testing organization may be separate from the development team. There are various roles for testing team members. Information derived from software testing may be used to correct the process by which software is developed.
Goals and Scope of the Project
The project goals define the expected project results together with the required development constraints. Information 
may be extracted from the Project Proposal (or the Feasibility Study Report) and the Project Requirements Specification 
and completed, if required.
Identify the various categories of project goals (list the major project goals only and refer to the Project Requirement
s Specification or other documents for details). Consider the following categories:
•	Functional goals
•	Strategic goals
•	Business goals 
•	Technological goals
•	Quality goals
•	Organizational goals 
•	Other goals
•	Constraints 
Testing Steps
To ensure complete software testing, testing team must be careful about certain activities that are part of the process. If the software testing is not complete as per the business and customer requirements, it could have a severe adverse effect during or post implementation of the software at the customer site. The more is the coverage, the less are the chances of any bugs passing to the implementation phase. So, to ensure the complete coverage of software product and to find the maximum possible bugs or defects, testers have to ensure following steps:
1. Ensure that the documents defining the business and customer requirements are complete and correct.
2. Ensure that the development team and testers themselves have clearly understood the documents.
3. Prepare a clear cut scope of testing based on product documents.
4. The strategy and Test Planning is as per system requirements.
5. Decide test methodology and test tools (if any), and test schedule.
6. Prepare Test Cases based on business rules and customer requirements.
7. Ensure that the test cases are extensive and sensible to cover the complete requirements testing.
8. Ensure that during testing no changes in the test environment (coding etc.) is done by development team.
9. Create Test Scenarios based on test cases.
10. Observe the result of each test case and record it accordingly.
11. Prepare a comprehensive and detailed test report explaining each of the test case, scenario and its result elaborately.
12. Ensure that all bugs reported should make sense (no duplication/overlapping of scenarios and no repetition of bugs reported)
13. Ensure that the complete testing finishes as per schedule.
14. Simulate any bugs that are not clear to development team.
15. Ensure that you have a tentative plan from the development team when they are fixing all bugs and submitting it back to testing team.
16. Verify all bugs fixed and ensure that the development team is sitting with testers during verification.
17. Prepare the final report and submit back to Development team, giving the status of each bug fixed, as verified as fixed or not fixed. Report any new bugs arrived in the software while fixing these bugs.






